#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options false
\master PhDThesis_Georgi_Knowledge_based_Lyrics_Tracking.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Broadly, this dissertation aimed to build culture-aware and domain-specific
 MIR approaches using probabilistic models for tracking lyrics in music
 audio signals.
 We proposed specific probabilistic models to represent how the transitions
 between consecutive sung phonemes are conditioned by different facets of
 music-domain knowledge.
 The models we build take into account some of these facets and consider
 them as 
\emph on
temporal complementary context
\emph default
 that exists around lyrics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to evaluate the potential of the proposed models, we built a complete
 methodology for the automatic alignment of lyrics to an audio recording
 (LAA) and evaluated its performance by the accuracy of the LAA.
 As a baseline we chose a phonetic recognizer based on hidden Markov models
 (HMM): a methodology applied in most of hitherto computational studies
 on lyrics tracking.
 We applied the proposed methodologies on especially compiled for this study
 datasets that are subsets from the CompMusic research corpora on OTMM and
 jingju.
 These music traditions pose a challenge to LAA because of their highly
 expressive singing style and the resulting high degree of temporal variability
 and relatively long syllable durations.
 
\color black
The reason is that traditional HMMs have waiting time in a state that cannot
 be too long.
 
\color inherit
The low accuracy of the baseline phonetic recognizer confirmed that.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To this end, we built two separate extensions of the phonetic recognizer:
 one for middle-level complementary context and a separate one for fine-level
 context.
 As middle-level we modeled the influence of the structure of a melodic
 phrase on the phoneme transitions of lyrics.
 As to the fine-level context, we modeled how phoneme transitions interact
 with the position of the accents in the metrical cycle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Importance of complementary context
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We represented events from complementary context as components in a DBN
 and their influence on the lyrics as a hierarchical dependence between
 the components.
 The presented solutions provide an alternative to the prevailing music-knowledg
e-uninformed approach to modeling lyrics, in which the extracted phonetic
 timbre features are agglomerated in a bottom-up fashion.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Middle-level context 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color black
We first proposed a phonetic recognizer that utilizes lyrics duration informatio
n as a cue, complementary to phonetic timbre.
 
\color inherit
It is representing how the position of a lyrics syllable in a melodic phrase
 influences its duration.
 
\color black
An advantage of the model is that it allows room for certain temporal flexibilit
y to handle cases of significant deviation of sung vowels from the expected
 reference durations.

\color inherit
 Evaluation showed that syllable durations is the facet of complementary
 context with biggest contribution to improvement of the baseline LAA (up
 to absolute 10 %).
 For OTMM, despite the accuracy of around 90% for a cappella singing, LAA
 of material with instrumental accompaniment remains somewhat lower and
 still far from industry-ready order of performance.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For jingju the relative improvement was somewhat bigger than for OTMM.
 One explanation is the very long durations of sung vowels in jingju, which
 is a challenge to conventional HMMs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
ADD.
 we evaluated on two traditions.
 The use cases are hard.
 We do not have very high absolute accuracy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The complementary context is a stepping stone, not used so far in LAA research.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Fine-level context
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color black
In this thesis we focused on one particular fine-level facet - the accents
 in the metric cycle.
 We studied the relation of metrical accents to lyrics in two steps: how
 metrical accents interact with vocal onsets and how the latter, in turn,
 interact with phoneme transitions.

\color inherit
 Therefore, we devised two separate probabilistic models for two separate
 tasks: vocal-onset aware lyrics-to-audio alignment and metrical-accent
 aware vocal onset detection.
 We tested the model on recordings from OTMM.
 Results confirmed that OTMM's well-grounded rhythmic framework provided
 an excellent piece of domain knowledge context.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For vocal-onset aware lyrics-to-audio alignment we conceptualized phoneme
 transition rules that consider the presence of vocal note onsets.

\color black
 We integrated these into the
\color inherit
 transition model of the phonetic recognizer.
 Results showed that the improvement of accuracy is not very substantial,
 even with manually annotated onsets (around 3 absolute %).
 
\color black
In fact, for given cases (for example vowels held long on same pitch) onsets
 are not conceptually capable of bringing any benefit.
 
\color inherit
However, we believe that, the derived phoneme transition rules are an important
 linguistic contribution that can be exploited in other singing styles,
 because the rules could be easily transferred to given languages, other
 than Turkish.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A limitation of the duration aware model is the requirement for external
 source of syllable reference durations - usually the music scores.
 To reduce this limitation, we built a separate methodology that relies
 on automatically extracted musical events - vocal note onsets.
 Based on evidence that in OTMM the position of note events in a melodic
 phrase is influenced by the position in a metrical cycle, we designed a
 model for simultaneously tracking vocal onsets and metrical accents.
 Vocal onset detection in multi-instrumental music occurred, in fact, to
 be one of the hardest MIR problems (scoring in the order of 35-40 % f-measure).
 It is arguably even harder in OTMM because of the expressive singing style:
 melodic onsets are often approached by slurs and melismas.
 The complementary metrical accent context proved to be an important 'stepping
 stone': the accuracy of vocal onset detection was increased reasonably
 for two different usul types.
 We believe that the biggest potential of the model lies in its generalisibility
 - applying it to singing material with different singing style and meter
 is as easy as tuning its parameters.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The most important advantage of the metric-accent models is that they do
 not necessarily depend on external sources of information such as music
 scores.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary of contributions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A summary of the specific contributions from the work presented in the dissertat
ion are listed below.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Musicological contributions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We hope that the outcomes of this work will motivate researchers to use
 more often music context knowledge in future work.
 Some particular contributions are: 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
and this way bridge the semantic 
\series bold
gap.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We showed that a model of complementary context can be adapted to a different
 music tradition (the duration aware model has been applied to two different
 traditions).
 None of the facets of complementary context modeled are unique for a music
 tradition.
 This means that transferring the model to another music tradition is a
 matter of reducing the music knowledge context to an appropriate set of
 rules/patterns.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We compiled several datasets of OTMM and jingju with annotations of different
 music facets including lyrics, vocal sections, onsets of singing voice,
 beats.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The most successful LAA approach developed, the syllable-duration aware
 LAA was integrated into Dunya-web.
 It can enable musicologists to track in OTMM not only the aligned lyrics,
 but also complementary musical facets and  music-specific phenomena.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Technical and scientific contributions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We conceptualized the interaction of phoneme transitions to other musical
 facets.
 These interactions were represented as hidden variables and their dependences
 in DBNs.
 DBNs are an elegant modeling tool (we presented illustrated the model dependenc
ies in diagrams)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Inference in DBNs is computationally demanding.
 Therefore, we proposed several implementation simplifications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
All the methodologies presented in this thesis are implemented as modular
 and easy-to-extend software.
 A special focus has been put on making them reproducible.
 To our knowledge this is the first open source software for lyrics-to-audio
 alignment that is based on computational study.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace defskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Applying insights and methodologies from this culture-specific study can
 open up and make the existing computational methods more versatile.
 We hope that in the future researchers can apply and extend the outcomes
 of this work to improve and enrich existing MIR methodologies, thus fulfilling
 one of the ultimate goals of the CompMusic project 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "serra2013roadmap"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Future work
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Ina sense in OTMM the degree of unpredictability, in regard to a reference
 score, can be considered the most closest to that of eurogenetic musics.
 We strive to assess the generalizability of the methods of this study also
 to eurogenetic musics, which are the focus of current MIR research.
 Flexible durations of syllables is common in some eurogenetic genres such
 as jazz singing.
 Still, deviation from the musical score is acceptable only to a certain
 extent, which is arguably comparable to that in OTMM, and much smaller
 than in far-eastern traditions such as Beijing opera.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
onset-aware LAA has to be run on polyphonic.
 At the end of this thesis the polyphonic dataset has still no lyrics annotation
s.
 The annotations of the lyrics a cappella dataset were not checked for their
 corresponding original instrumental recordings.
 There might be some time-inconsistencies.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\color red
whereas the correlation of rhythmic accents and vowel onsets is an example
 of the influence of a fine-level context, true to a large extent in modern
 rock music.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color black
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
onset aware alignment does not depend on score, only on language.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
—
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\color black
In this way, the influence of metrical events on syllable transitions is
 represented implicitly through its influence on note onsets, which are
 in turn influenced by metrical events.
 they can be combined in the future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
–
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\color black
In fact, for cases of vowels held long on same pitch, conceptually onsets
 are not capable of bringing any benefit.
 This can be handled by the syllable duration aware model.
 We expect that it will be beneficial therefore to combine the two models
 into one, as they complement each other conceptually.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
